README.md, before:

# Overview

This library implements Text and Graphics functionality for the Digole Serial OLED Display modules made by Digole . Tested and verified with [Digole 1.8" Serial: UART/I2C/SPI OLED True Color 160x128  OLED Module DS160128COLED-46](http://www.digole.com/index.php?productID=859)

# HW Setup
For testing and initial bringup, the core library runs on Linux via USB Serial and only 3 wires (TXD, VCC, GND) are soldered to the module. Pinout is defined as below:

    Black - Ground (connect to ground on OLED module)
    Brown - CTS
    Red - VCC (3V model used - connect to VCC on OLED module)
    Orange - TXD (connect to Data on OLED module)
    Yellow - RXD (not currently used - may be in the future)
    Green - RTS

For more information on the FTDI USB->Serial Adapter Cable, see also: http://www.ftdichip.com/Support/Documents/DataSheets/Cables/DS_TTL-232R_CABLES.pdf

# Module Connections
The Digole HW module is setup as below. Pin-out for the module is from the Digole HW Adapter manual:
![HW Setup Diagram](http://realflightsystems.com/techpubs/digole/hw_setup_ttl2323v3.jpg)

# API Documentation
Doxygen is used for [API Documentation](http://realflightsystems.com/techpubs/digole/html/index.html)

# Porting
Relevant porting files and API's are defined in io.c and serial.c for the Linux platform

# Testing
A test application (oledtest) is provided to verify the functionality and perform testing.
Some snapshots are shown below.
![Black cat image](http://realflightsystems.com/techpubs/digole/black-cat-128x128_rendered.jpg)
![Bahamas image](http://realflightsystems.com/techpubs/digole/bahamas3_160x108_rendered.jpg)
![Rendered text](http://realflightsystems.com/techpubs/digole/text_rendered.jpg)
![Blackrock Truecolor Image](http://realflightsystems.com/techpubs/digole/Aidain_Sojourner_ID2015_BR_4thofJuplaya_160x120_rendered.JPG)

A [mandelbrot fractal generator](http://www.physics.emory.edu/faculty/weeks//software/mand.html) program which outputs PNG has been modified to use the display library.
 ![Mandelbrot image](http://realflightsystems.com/techpubs/digole/mandelbrot.jpg)

Additional utilities and test applications may be provided in the future.

# Reference

See also: http://www.digole.com/index.php?productID=859

See also: http://www.digole.com//images/file/Tech_Data/Digole_Serial_Display_Adapter-Manual.pdf

## Software

The software is written in C99, Linux kernel coding style and is distributed under the MIT License.
Doxygen is used for[http://realflightsystems.com/techpubs/digole/html/](API Documentation)


## Copyright
    Copyright (C) 2016 Real Flight Systems 

## Author
    James F Dougherty <jfd@realflightsystems.com>

Commit message:

Add Raspberry Pi SPI support

README.md, after:

# Overview

This library implements Text and Graphics functionality for the Digole Serial OLED Display modules made by Digole . Tested and verified with [Digole 1.8" Serial: UART/I2C/SPI OLED True Color 160x128  OLED Module DS160128COLED-46](http://www.digole.com/index.php?productID=859). Support for Serial and SPI under Linux is provided. 

# Serial HW Setup
For testing and initial bringup, the core library runs on Linux via USB Serial and only 3 wires (TXD, VCC, GND) are soldered to the module. Pinout is defined as below:

    Black - Ground (connect to ground on OLED module)
    Brown - CTS
    Red - VCC (3V model used - connect to VCC on OLED module)
    Orange - TXD (connect to Data on OLED module)
    Yellow - RXD (not currently used - may be in the future)
    Green - RTS

For more information on the FTDI USB->Serial Adapter Cable, see also: http://www.ftdichip.com/Support/Documents/DataSheets/Cables/DS_TTL-232R_CABLES.pdf

# Serial Module Connections
The Digole HW module is setup as below. Pin-out for the module is from the Digole HW Adapter manual:
![HW Setup Diagram](http://realflightsystems.com/techpubs/digole/hw_setup_ttl2323v3.jpg)

# Raspberry Pi SPI Connections

For real applications, the SPI port on Raspberry PI is supported by connecting the module 
to the pinouts as below. 200Kbps SPI mode is used, which is the maximum speed supported by the module.

    Pi GND - Digole GND
    Pi 3.3V - Digole VCC
    Pi CE1 - Digole SS (Shift Select)
    Pi SCK - Digole CLK/SCL
    Pi MOSI - Digole DATA

![HW Setup Diagram](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jafrado/digole/master/doc/digole-pi0.jpg)



# API Documentation
Doxygen is used for [API Documentation](http://realflightsystems.com/techpubs/digole/html/index.html)

# Porting
Relevant porting files and API's are defined in io.c and serial.c for the Linux platform

# Testing
## oledtest
A test application is provided to verify the functionality and perform testing.
Some snapshots are shown below.
![Black cat image](http://realflightsystems.com/techpubs/digole/black-cat-128x128_rendered.jpg)
![Bahamas image](http://realflightsystems.com/techpubs/digole/bahamas3_160x108_rendered.jpg)
![Rendered text](http://realflightsystems.com/techpubs/digole/text_rendered.jpg)
![Blackrock Truecolor Image](http://realflightsystems.com/techpubs/digole/Aidain_Sojourner_ID2015_BR_4thofJuplaya_160x120_rendered.JPG)

# Sample Applications
## mandelbrot
A [mandelbrot fractal generator](http://www.physics.emory.edu/faculty/weeks//software/mand.html) program which outputs PNG has been modified to use the display library.
 ![Mandelbrot image](http://realflightsystems.com/techpubs/digole/mandelbrot.jpg)
## fip
A demo which shows how to make simple controls and UI elements.
![Front Instrument Panel Image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jafrado/digole/master/doc/fip.jpg) 
## img_load
img_load is an application for loading the background image and setting startup options; you can use this to program the default start-up screen when the module boots.

# Reference

See also: http://www.digole.com/index.php?productID=859

See also: http://www.digole.com//images/file/Tech_Data/Digole_Serial_Display_Adapter-Manual.pdf

## Software

The software is written in C99, Linux kernel coding style and is distributed under the MIT License.
Doxygen is used for[http://realflightsystems.com/techpubs/digole/html/](API Documentation)


## Copyright
    Copyright (C) 2016 Real Flight Systems 

## Author
    James F Dougherty <jfd@realflightsystems.com>
